(upbeat music)
All right, let's refactor the dad jokes
and the currency conversion ones to use modules
just so you can see how I would structure all of that.
So what I want you to do is
first let's do dad jokes,
and I want to duplicate that into a new folder.
And this one is 77 dad jokes modules.
Okay, good.
Now, first thing we need to do
is open up our index.html,
and I'm taking all the finished text
and putting it into my jokes J S
because I don't need the finished version.
Now we'll go into our index.html
and the first thing we need to do to convert it
to modules is you just put a type of module
onto your attribute of your script tag
and then the second thing is we need to run
it under a server.
So I'm gonna right click,
open with live server,
now we've got our dad jokes.
Everything is working just as we had left it,
that's great.
Now I'm gonna go into my joke J S
and just scan it real quick.
Okay, so my entry point is going to be jokes J S
and in my entry point I like to do
a lot of my selecting.
Selecting in my event listeners
but everything else,
all of my data,
all of my functionality
and all of my utilities
and all of my handlers are going to be in separate files
in their own modules.
So let's go function by function,
line by line.
So these are all fine, I'll keep those there.
Now, this button text,
where would I put that?
I would probably put that in it's own file
just so I can stay sane with that.
So we're gonna go into our 77
and I'll make a new file.
Sometimes people will even make a folder,
maybe they'll call it data.
Let's do that
and then in data we'll call buttontext.js
and I'm gonna cut this button text
and paste it into here.
Okay good.
I'm not gonna worry about importing anything
I just want to get all of these different function
into their own files
before we can go ahead and do that.
Next is this fetch joke function.
So often this is core to what the application does.
So often people will make a lib folder for this.
So they'll go in here,
make a new folder,
they'll call that lib.
You don't have to make these.
I often find it a little bit confusing
when people have hundreds of folders
for organization sake.
So feel free to just make files in your root directory
or make a scripts folder and throw them all in there
and then as you find yourself having too many files
then you can re-look at it.
So I'll do it this way just because people
like to see what is a big app built like.
In the lib
we will make a index.js
and that will contain all of your library JavaScript.
So I'm going to remove that and put it in here.
And the one thing I'm seeing right now
is there's red because this a loader
and you need to pass it reference to the loader
because, remember how I said that modules have
their own scope, well now we're not able to reference it.
So two ways we could fix this is we could either select
the loader inside of this function or we could pass it in.
And I think passing in the loader is the better idea.
So what we're gonna do is we'll pass in the loader
and then we'll modify the fetching
of the joke function
and pass it reference to our loader.
Okay, good.
I'm happy with that.
Also we should probably export this one
and our button text,
this will be a default export.
So export default button text.
So why is this its own?
Because I think this is all this file is going to do.
So that's the main export
whereas my index J S and my lib folder,
this will contain multiple functions.
Eventually when we build out the big dad joke app
and it's not something we're doing
but if you were to build a larger application
you'd probably have multiple library functions
in here that you would do.
So we will make this a--
we'll put a little comment,
this is a named export.
We can have lots of these.
This is a default export,
only one per file.
Okay, good.
Next up, random item from array.
Okay so that is a util,
I'll probably make a utils.js file
inside of my lib.
Other people will make an entire folder dedicated
to utils, it doesn't matter,
it really just comes down to how many utils do you have.
I'm gonna make my own little file.
I like to just always have utils.js
and I stick anything I want in there.
And then if it gets to large
I'll break it out into separate functions.
I think that's my main thing I want to tell you here is
don't sweat it,
your structure will change over time.
Keep it as simple as possible off the bat.
You can always go back and refactor it later.
Okay, so random item from aray.
So get rid of that.
Go into my utils
and we'll just export that, right?
That's a named export,
named export, good.
And then next handle click, okay.
That's a handler so I'll make another file.
I could put this in lib,
yeah I think I'll do that.
I'll call it handlers.js
and we will export that.
That again is a named export.
And all right, I think we're in good shape right now.
Now what I like to do when I re-factor it
because it's obviously going to be very broken right now.
You can sort of just go either by errors in your console
or by ESLint errors depending on what you like.
Let's do it in the console.
So handle click is not defined.
Why not?
Well because we moved handle click
outside of this so if we need
to pass handle click here we need to import it.
So we'll go to the very top
and we'll import curly bracket,
handle click
from
it's in our lib
and it's in our handlers.js.
All right, that's the first error.
Now there's seems to be no errors
but I bet if I click it I'll get another one.
Uncaught reference error fetch joke is not defined
in handlers.js, okay.
So here is something I really wanted to tell you.
So I need the fetch joke function here.
So do I import fetch joke into here,
into my entry point,
or do I import into here?
And the answer is you always import it where you need it.
Even if you've already imported it into another file.
So if I imported fetch joke from,
what is it?
It's in our lib
index.js.
If I did that it still errors out.
Fetch joke is not defined, why?
Because even though you import it in your entry
then you also still have to import it into
where you need it.
In fact there's no sense in importing in here
but you'll see it's yellow because we've never used it.
So there's no sense in importing things into a file
where they're not used.
You simply import it where you need it.
So import,
fetch joke from
and now we'll go to our index.js.
You know I'm not in the lib folder anymore
because handlers is a sibling to index.js.
So that looks like it's working.
Now let's keep going.
Oh here we go,
four 0 four not found.
Oh it's because I forgot the .js on the end.
All right now next error, loader is not defined.
Okay, so we modified this fetch joke function
to take in a loader but now we're calling it
from a separate file so how do we pass that?
Well our handle click now has to take an argument
so we could do this.
We could just pass another function here.
There,
and we'll pass it our loader.
So that's one way to do it.
And that looks like it still is not defined on handlers
because we have to modify this handle click
to take in the loader then.
There we go the loader shows up.
That's good.
Another way we could have done that is
we say dot bind
and null because we don't care about this,
we're not using this so we don't care,
we just pass null
and then we pass it the arguments
which is loader.
That works exactly the same way
and then finally we could have also done
a regular function
that in term, this is anonymous function
that in term will call handle click
and you pass it our loader.
So sometimes you'll have to hot potato
your loader from where you selected it
to handle click
and then once more from handle click
to fetch joke.
We certainly could have also selected it
right inside of this handle click as well.
That's up to you whether you like to do that.
There's pros and cons to both of it.
Next thing we have here is joke holder is not defined
so now we're getting into a bit of a problem.
Okay,
handle click needs the loader,
we sort of saw how we could solve that
but now we also need the span and the joke holder
so do we modify that to take two more arguments?
So another way that we could do that
is we can just create another module
that will do all of our selecting.
So we'll go into,
let's go into our lib
and let's call it elements.js
and let's take all of these, boom,
put it in here and we'll just put an export
in front of them all.
Export.
Then what we can do is we no longer have
to pass the loader,
let's do the loader first,
call it handle click
and of course we need our joke button
in order to be able to click it so import
joke button
from
lib elements.js.
So that works
and then we'll go into our handler here
and we no longer have to pass the loader
and we can take the loader,
the joke holder, the joke button span
and
that is it so far.
And we'll import all of those at once.
So import those three
from elements.js.
There we go.
Good that seemed to actually fetch a joke
and display it.
Now we've got our next problem,
random item from array is not defined.
Okay, well we already did that,
we stuck that in our utils J S
so we can import it.
Import
random item from array from utils.js
and give me another error,
button text is not defined.
Okay so random item from array
needs an array so where is that array?
That's stored in data button text,
oh we can do that
so import
button text so this is a default
so we don't have to do curly brackets
from we gotta go up a level
into our data folder and get buttontext.js.
And it works!
Beautiful, so you see how we chopped that up.
It sometimes for beginners might thinks like,
"That seems way harder
"because now everything's in different files
"I don't necessarily know where to go."
And I have an error.
This is where you really need to get good
at following your stack traces and seeing
where everything goes.
But long term for maintainability
and shareability this approach is much better.
In the next one let's go ahead
and do the currency conversion
and convert that to modules.